website/docs: add credentials prompt for rac doc (#14840)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/rac/rac_credentials_prompt.md

---
title: RAC Credentials Prompt
---

## About RAC Credentials Prompt

> The RAC provider can be configured to prompt users for their credentials when connecting to endpoints. This is particulalry useful for establishing RDP connections to modern Windows systems that often require credentials to establish a connection.

Author: Endpoints in this context means RAC endpoints. So, I've added "RAC" here.

> After implementing this configuration, when connecting to an RAC endpoint users will be prompted to enter their credentials which will then be passed to the RAC endpoint. This means that static credentials do not need to be set in the RAC provider, property mapping, or endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After implementing this configuration, when connecting to an RAC endpoint users are prompted to enter their credentials which are then passed to the RAC endpoint. This means that static credentials do not need to be set in the RAC provider, property mapping, or endpoint.
```

This configurations requires:

> 1. Creating an authorization flow.

Reviewer: Is this the exact order the steps need to be done in? If the order of the steps don't matter, use bullets.

---
title: RAC Credentials Prompt
---

> ## About RAC Credentials Prompt

Reviewer: just a suggestion, since I wouldn't consider this a proper noun...

> The RAC provider can be configured to prompt users for their credentials when connecting to RAC endpoints. This is particulalry useful for establishing RDP connections to modern Windows systems that often require credentials to establish a connection.

Reviewer: To avoid pasive voice we could say "You can configure the RAC provider to prompt..." but up to you....

After implementing this configuration, when connecting to an RAC endpoint users are prompted to enter their credentials which are then passed to the RAC endpoint. This means that static credentials do not need to be set in the RAC provider, property mapping, or endpoint.

This configurations requires:

1. Creating an authorization flow.
2. Creating two prompts.
3. Creating and binding a prompt stage.
4. Updating the RAC provider.

## Create a new authorization flow

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Flows and Stages** > **Flows**, click **Create**, and enter the following required settings:
    - **Name**: Enter a descriptive name for the flow.
    - **Title**: Enter a title for the flow. This will be displayed to users when they're prompted for their credentials.
    - **Slug**: Enter a slug for the flow. This will be displayed in the flow URL.
    - **Designation**: `Authorization`
    - **Authentication**: `Require authentication`
3. Click **Create**.

> ## Create prompts

Reviewer: Is it a single prompt, or multiple...? Maybe "Create a prompt"?

Reviewer: oh I see, your Note below explains it

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Flows and Stages** > **Prompts**, click **Create**, and enter the following required settings:
    - **Name**: Enter a descriptive name for the prompt (e.g. `username`).
    - **Field Key**: `connection_settings.username`
    - **Label**: Enter a label for the field which will be displayed above it.
    - **Type**: `Text`

>     - **Required**: Toggled.

Reviewer: toggled... on? To me this isn;t clear whcih way the toggle shold be set (on/off or enabled/disabled)?

4. Change **Authorization flow** to the newly created authorization flow.
5. Click **Update** to save the change.

## Update the RAC endpoint _(sometimes required)_

Depending on the configuration of the RDP server that's being connected to, it is sometimes necessary to set the security type that's used for the connection. For many modern windows RDP servers, this often needs to be set to `tls`.

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers** and click the name of the RAC provider that you're using.
3. Under **Endpoints**, click the **Edit** icon of the endpoint that you're using.
4. Under **Advanced Settings** in the **Settings** box, enter `security: tls`
5. Click **Update** to save the change.

:::note
Other options for the connection security type are: `any`, `nla`, `nla-ext`, `vmconnect`, and `rdp`. For more information see the [Guacamole RDP Authentication and Security Documentation](https://guacamole.apache.org/doc/gug/configuring-guacamole.html#authentication-and-security).

## Configuration verification

> Log in to authentik with a user account that has the required privilieges to access the RAC application. On the user dashboard click on the RAC application, you should then be redicted to the prompt stage and prompted for a username and password. Enter the credentials for the RAC endpoint and if the credentials are valid, the RDP/SSH/VNC connection should be established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to authentik with a user account that has the required priviliges to access the RAC application. Open the User interface, and on the **My applications** page click the RAC application. You should then be redirected to the prompt stage and prompted for a username and password. Enter the credentials for the RAC endpoint and if the credentials are valid, the RDP/SSH/VNC connection should be established.
```
